## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/common/setenv_calib.sh

**Start chunk id:** 0aabc6429eaea3d2bb15dac8f038b686c36e97f62be5d8e5723562b9d7c79189

## Content

**Question:** What happens to the `CAN_DO_CALIB_TRD_T0` variable if the `DISABLE_TRD_PH` environment variable is set to 1?

**Answer:** If the `DISABLE_TRD_PH` environment variable is set to 1, the `CAN_DO_CALIB_TRD_T0` variable is set to 0.

---

**Question:** What additional data is added to the CALIBDATASPEC_BARREL_TF if both $CALIB_TPC_SCDCALIB is set to 1 and $CALIB_TPC_SCDCALIB_SENDTRKDATA is set to 1?

**Answer:** If both $CALIB_TPC_SCDCALIB is set to 1 and $CALIB_TPC_SCDCALIB_SENDTRKDATA is set to 1, the additional data added to the CALIBDATASPEC_BARREL_TF is "tpcInterpTrkData:GLO/TRKDATA/0".

---

**Question:** What specific calibration data specification is added for the FT0 detector if the CALIB_FT0_TIMEOFFSET variable is set to 1?

**Answer:** The specific calibration data specification added for the FT0 detector, when the CALIB_FT0_TIMEOFFSET variable is set to 1, is "timeSpectraFT0:FT0/TIME_SPECTRA/0".

---

**Question:** What specific conditions must be met for the "integrCurrFT0" data to be included in the CALIBDATASPEC_FORWARD_SPORADIC specification?

**Answer:** The "integrCurrFT0" data will be included in the CALIBDATASPEC_FORWARD_SPORADIC specification if the variable $CALIB_FT0_INTEGRATEDCURR is set to 1.

---

**Question:** What additional environment variable is set for the proxy connection when the output type is "timeframe"?

**Answer:** The additional environment variable set for the proxy connection when the output type is "timeframe" is DPL_OUTPUT_PROXY_ORDERED=1.

---

**Question:** Under what condition will the variable `CALIB_ASYNC_EXTRACTTIMESERIES` be set to 0 if it is not already defined or set to 1?

**Answer:** The variable `CALIB_ASYNC_EXTRACTTIMESERIES` will be set to 0 if it is not already defined or set to 1, and if either the `CALIB_ASYNC_EXTRACTTIMESERIES` variable is not set or its value is 0, or if the `CAN_DO_CALIB_ASYNC_EXTRACTTIMESERIES` variable is set to 0.

---

**Question:** How does the script determine the initial value for the PHS calibrations if the corresponding environment variable is not set?

**Answer:** The script determines the initial value for the PHS calibrations by checking if the corresponding environment variable is set. If the environment variable such as CALIB_PHS_ENERGYCALIB, CALIB_PHS_BADMAPCALIB, CALIB_PHS_TURNONCALIB, CALIB_PHS_RUNBYRUNCALIB, or CALIB_PHS_L1PHASE is not set (indicated by -z ${VARIABLE+x}), it assigns a value of 1 to the respective calibration variable.

---

**Question:** What is the value assigned to the variable `CALIB_TRD_VDRIFTEXB` if neither the `CALIB_TRD_VDRIFTEXB` variable is set nor the `CAN_DO_CALIB_TRD_VDRIFTEXB` variable is set to 1?

**Answer:** The value assigned to the variable `CALIB_TRD_VDRIFTEXB` is 0.

---

**Question:** What conditions must be met for the calibration steps CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_SCDCALIB, CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_TIMEGAIN, and CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_VDRIFTTGL to be enabled, and how do these conditions interact with the presence of certain detectors and matching algorithms?

**Answer:** For CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_SCDCALIB, CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_TIMEGAIN, and CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_VDRIFTTGL to be enabled, the following conditions must be met:

1. CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_SCDCALIB:
   - The TPC detector must be calibrated.
   - The ITS detector must be calibrated.
   - The ITS and TPC must have matching enabled.

2. CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_TIMEGAIN and CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_RESPADGAIN:
   - The TPC detector must be calibrated.
   - The TPC must have DEDX processing step applied.

3. CAN_DO_CALIB_TPC_VDRIFTTGL:
   - The TPC detector must be calibrated.
   - The ITS detector must be calibrated.
   - The ITS and TPC must have matching enabled.

These conditions ensure that the TPC calibration steps are only enabled when the necessary detectors and processing steps are present and correctly configured. Specifically, the calibration steps for SCDCALIB, TIMEGAIN, and VDRIFTTGL depend on the presence of the ITS detector and its calibration status, as well as the matching between the ITS and TPC. The TIMEGAIN and RESPADGAIN calibration steps also require the DEDX processing step to be applied to the TPC.

---

**Question:** What is the default value assigned to the variable `CALIB_CPV_GAIN` if it is not already defined?

**Answer:** The default value assigned to the variable `CALIB_CPV_GAIN` if it is not already defined is 1.

---

**Question:** What specific calibdata specification is added for the PHS clusters when both $CALIB_PHS_ENERGYCALIB and $CALIB_PHS_TURNONCALIB are set to 1?

**Answer:** cluelementsPHS:PHS/CLUELEMENTS/0

---

**Question:** What condition must be met for the variable `CAN_DO_CALIB_ASYNC_EXTRACTTIMESERIES` to be set to 1?

**Answer:** For the variable `CAN_DO_CALIB_ASYNC_EXTRACTTIMESERIES` to be set to 1, the following conditions must be met:
- The `SYNCMODE` variable must not be equal to 1.
- The TPC detector must be in reconstruction mode.
- The ITS detector must be in reconstruction mode.
- The FT0 detector must be in reconstruction mode.

---

**Question:** What specific calibration histograms are included in the BARREL_TF calibration data specification when both the VDRIFT and GAIN calibration flags are set to 1?

**Answer:** The specific calibration histograms included in the BARREL_TF calibration data specification when both the VDRIFT and GAIN calibration flags are set to 1 are "angResHistoTRD:TRD/ANGRESHISTS/0" and "gainHistoTRD:TRD/GAINCALIBHISTS/0".

---

**Question:** Which variables are printed if the environment variable GEN_TOPO_VERBOSE is set to 1?

**Answer:** The following variables are printed if the environment variable GEN_TOPO_VERBOSE is set to 1:

- CALIBDATASPEC_BARREL_TF
- CALIBDATASPEC_BARREL_SPORADIC
- CALIBDATASPEC_TPCIDC_A
- CALIBDATASPEC_TPCIDC_C
- CALIBDATASPEC_CALO_TF
- CALIBDATASPEC_CALO_SPORADIC
- CALIBDATASPEC_MUON_TF
- CALIBDATASPEC_MUON_SPORADIC
- CALIBDATASPEC_FORWARD_TF
- CALIBDATASPEC_FORWARD_SPORADIC

---

**Question:** What value will CALIB_TPC_IDC take if the EPNSYNCMODE is 1 and the GEN_TOPO_DEPLOYMENT_TYPE is "ALICE_STAGING"?

**Answer:** CALIB_TPC_IDC will take the value 0.

---

**Question:** What specific calib dataspecs are added for the TPC IDCs on Side C if the calibration flag is set?

**Answer:** If the calibration flag for TPC IDCs on Side C is set, the specific calib dataspecs added are "idcsgroupc:TPC/IDCGROUPC".

---

**Question:** What additional calibration data specification would be added if both $CALIB_TOF_LHCPHASE and $CALIB_TOF_CHANNELOFFSETS are set to 1?

**Answer:** if [[ $CALIB_TOF_LHCPHASE == 1 ]] && [[ $CALIB_TOF_CHANNELOFFSETS == 1 ]]; then add_semicolon_separated CALIBDATASPEC_BARREL_TF "calibTOF:TOF/CALIBDATA/0"; fi

---

**Question:** What are the conditions for performing the TOF LHC phase calibration and channel offsets calibration?

**Answer:** The conditions for performing the TOF LHC phase calibration and channel offsets calibration are:
- The TOF detector must be calibrated (has_detector_calib TOF).
- The TOF detector must have a reconstruction (has_detector_reco TOF).
- The TOF must be matched with either the ITS-TPC combination or the ITS-TPC-TRD combination.
- Additionally, the ITS-TPC (or ITS-TPC-TRD) combination must be reconstructed and matched.

---

**Question:** Which environment variable controls the verbosity level for the topological debug information in the given script?

**Answer:** The environment variable that controls the verbosity level for the topological debug information in the given script is GEN_TOPO_VERBOSE.

---

**Question:** What calibration processes are possible for the TRD detector when neither ITS, TPC, nor TRD have been calibrated?

**Answer:** When neither ITS, TPC, nor TRD have been calibrated, no TRD detector calibration processes are possible.

---

**Question:** What condition must be met for the variable `CAN_DO_CALIB_RCT_UPDATER` to be set to 1?

**Answer:** The variable `CAN_DO_CALIB_RCT_UPDATER` must be set to 1 if the following conditions are met:
- The environment variable `SYNCMODE` is equal to 1.
- The detector calibration step (has_detector_calib) for the RCT detector is present.
- There is a processing step (has_processing_step) named ENTROPY_ENCODER.
- The variable `WORKFLOW_DETECTORS_CTF` is not empty and not set to "NONE".

---

**Question:** What does the variable `CALIB_FT0_INTEGRATEDCURR` represent and under what condition is it set to 0?

**Answer:** The variable `CALIB_FT0_INTEGRATEDCURR` is set to 0 if either the environment variable `CALIB_FT0_INTEGRATEDCURR` is not set or the variable `CAN_DO_CALIB_FT0_INTEGRATEDCURR` is set to 0.

---

**Question:** What does the value of `CALIB_CPV_GAIN` become if both `${CALIB_CPV_GAIN}` is not set and `$CAN_DO_CALIB_CPV_GAIN` is set to 0?

**Answer:** The value of `CALIB_CPV_GAIN` becomes 0.

---

**Question:** What action is taken if the `CALIB_TOF_INTEGRATEDCURR` variable is not set, and what is its initial value if set?

**Answer:** If the `CALIB_TOF_INTEGRATEDCURR` variable is not set, it will be assigned the value `1`. If the variable is set, its initial value remains as the value provided at the time of setting.

---

**Question:** Which calibration is not explicitly mentioned in the document for the TOF detector?

**Answer:** The calibration for TOF integrated current is not explicitly mentioned in the document for the TOF detector.

---

**Question:** What are the calibration variables that are specifically mentioned for the EMC (EM calorimeter) in the document, and how are they indicated?

**Answer:** The calibration variable specifically mentioned for the EMC (EM calorimeter) in the document is CALIB_EMC_ASYNC_RECALIB. It is indicated by the line:

echo "CALIB_EMC_ASYNC_RECALIB = $CALIB_EMC_ASYNC_RECALIB" 1>&2

This line outputs the value of CALIB_EMC_ASYNC_RECALIB to standard error.

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the `GEN_TOPO_VERBOSE` environment variable is set to 1, and how are they implemented in the script?

**Answer:** If the `GEN_TOPO_VERBOSE` environment variable is set to 1, the script will perform the following actions:
1. It checks the value of `GEN_TOPO_VERBOSE` by evaluating the condition `[[ "0${GEN_TOPO_VERBOSE:-}" == "01" ]]`.
2. If the condition is true, the script will print the current value of the `PROXY_CONN` variable to stderr with the message "PROXY_CONN = $PROXY_CONN".
3. This is achieved by using the `echo` command with the redirection operator `1>&2`, which directs the standard output to stderr.
4. Subsequently, the current value of the `PROXY_CONN` variable is printed to the standard output using `echo $PROXY_CONN`.

---

**Question:** What is the value of the variable `CALIB_TRD_T0` if both `${CALIB_TRD_T0}` and `$CAN_DO_CALIB_TRD_T0` are not set, and `$CAN_DO_CALIB_TRD_T0` is equal to 0?

**Answer:** The value of the variable `CALIB_TRD_T0` would be set to 0.

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the script section that checks and enables calibrations if not already enabled or explicitly disabled?

**Answer:** The script section checks and enables calibrations if they are not yet enabled or if they are not explicitly disabled. Its purpose is to ensure that the required calibrations are active by default unless the user has explicitly opted out of them, thereby facilitating a seamless configuration process.

---

**Question:** What is the difference in the value of the `CONNECTION` variable when the script is set to "input" versus "output", and how does the presence of the `CALIB_LOCAL_AGGREGATOR` parameter affect these values?

**Answer:** When the script is set to "input", the `CONNECTION` variable is initialized as `method=bind`. If the `CALIB_LOCAL_AGGREGATOR` parameter is present, `CONNECTION` is appended with `,type=pull`; otherwise, it is appended with `,type=sub`.

For "output" setting, the `CONNECTION` variable starts as `method=connect`. Similarly, if `CALIB_LOCAL_AGGREGATOR` is present, `CONNECTION` is appended with `,type=push`; if not, it gets appended with `,type=pub`.

In summary, the `CONNECTION` variable starts with different methods for "input" and "output" cases, and the inclusion of `CALIB_LOCAL_AGGREGATOR` changes the type of connection for both cases, but to different values.

---

**Question:** Which calibration processes are specifically mentioned for the TPC (Time Projection Chamber) in this document?

**Answer:** The calibration processes specifically mentioned for the TPC in this document are:

- Space Charge Calibration (SCDCALIB)
- Time Gain Calibration (TIMEGAIN)
- RSE Pad Gain Calibration (RESPADGAIN)
- VDrift Time Gain Calibration (VDRIFTTGL)

---

**Question:** What are the conditions under which the `get_proxy_connection` function will exit with an error, and what specific parameters are required for the function to execute successfully?

**Answer:** The `get_proxy_connection` function will exit with an error if fewer than 3 parameters are provided. Specifically, it requires three parameters: 

1. A string id representing the proxy.
2. The type of connection, which can be either "input" or "output".
3. A value indicating whether the connection is sporadic or within a timeframe.

If these conditions are not met, the function will print a message indicating the number of parameters received and list the expected parameters, then exit with a failure status.

---

**Question:** What specific calibration data is included in the `CALIBDATASPEC_BARREL_SPORADIC` specification when both `CALIB_TPC_RESPADGAIN` and `CALIB_TOF_INTEGRATEDCURR` are set to 1?

**Answer:** When both `CALIB_TPC_RESPADGAIN` and `CALIB_TOF_INTEGRATEDCURR` are set to 1, the `CALIBDATASPEC_BARREL_SPORADIC` specification includes the following specific calibration data:

- `trackGainHistoTPC` from `TPC/TRACKGAINHISTOS/0`
- `integrCurrNTOF` from `TOF/ITOFCN/0`
- `integrCurrQTOF` from `TOF/ITOFCQ/0`