## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/production/configurations/2021/OCT/apass3_zerofield/async_pass.sh

**Start chunk id:** 116aa0dea892ffb6899880f07c5b99314b23a6ec9c49402187e0ada07ffaaeaa

## Content

**Question:** What command is used to extract performance metrics from the `performanceMetrics.json` file and save them into separate JSON files for each workflow?

**Answer:** The command used to extract performance metrics from the `performanceMetrics.json` file and save them into separate JSON files for each workflow is:

```bash
IFS=$'\n'
if [[ -f "performanceMetrics.json" ]]; then
    for workflow in `grep ': {' performanceMetrics.json`; do
        strippedWorkflow=`echo $workflow | cut -d\" -f2`
        cat performanceMetrics.json | jq '.'\"${strippedWorkflow}\"'' > ${strippedWorkflow}_metrics.json
    done
fi
```

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the `DPL_WORKFLOW_FROM_OUTSIDE` environment variable is not set?

**Answer:** If the `DPL_WORKFLOW_FROM_OUTSIDE` environment variable is not set, the script will use `dpl-workflow.sh` from the O2 directory. Specifically, it will copy `dpl-workflow.sh` located at `$O2_ROOT/prodtests/full-system-test/dpl-workflow.sh` into the current directory.

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the commonInput.tgz or runInput_$RUNNUMBER.tgz files are not found?

**Answer:** If the commonInput.tgz or runInput_$RUNNUMBER.tgz files are not found, the following actions are taken:

- For the commonInput.tgz file: The script will output "No commonInput.tgz found returning" and then the script will exit with a return code of 2.
- For the runInput_$RUNNUMBER.tgz file: The script will output "No runInput_$RUNNUMBER.tgz found returning" and then the script will also exit with a return code of 2.

---

**Question:** What would be the command line arguments needed to process a local ROOT file named `example.root` using this script?

**Answer:** The command line argument needed to process a local ROOT file named `example.root` using this script would be:

```
example.root
```

---

**Question:** What happens if the `QC_JSON_FROM_OUTSIDE` environment variable is not set?

**Answer:** If the `QC_JSON_FROM_OUTSIDE` environment variable is not set, the script checks if there are any QC JSON files in the `${GEN_TOPO_WORKDIR}/json_cache` directory. If such files are found, the latest one is copied to `QC_production.json`. If no QC files are found, it prints a message indicating that QC was likely not run.

---

**Question:** What will happen to the RUNNUMBER variable if the script receives the `-rnb` or `--run-number` argument followed by a value, and simultaneously the environment variable `ALIEN_JDL_LPMRUNNUMBER` is also set?

**Answer:** If the script receives the `-rnb` or `--run-number` argument followed by a value, and simultaneously the environment variable `ALIEN_JDL_LPMRUNNUMBER` is set, the value of the `RUNNUMBER` variable will be overwritten with the value of `ALIEN_JDL_LPMRUNNUMBER`.

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the "setenv_extra.sh" file does not exist in the current directory but exists in the O2DPG_ROOT path?

**Answer:** If the "setenv_extra.sh" file does not exist in the current directory but is found in the O2DPG_ROOT path, the following actions are taken:

1. A symbolic link (ln -s) is created to the setenv_extra.sh file located at $O2DPG_ROOT/DATA/production/configurations/$ALIEN_JDL_LPMANCHORYEAR/$ALIEN_JDL_LPMPRODUCTIONTAG/$ALIEN_JDL_LPMPASSNAME/setenv_extra.sh.
2. The setenv_extra.sh file is then sourced with the provided RUNNUMBER and BEAMTYPE variables using the command source setenv_extra.sh $RUNNUMBER $BEAMTYPE.

---

**Question:** What are the implications of not using any special settings in the simulation, based on the provided script snippet?

**Answer:** The implication of not using any special settings in the simulation, based on the provided script snippet, is that the simulation will proceed with default configurations. This is indicated by the line "No special settings will be used" which is echoed, suggesting that the script is informing the user about the default operational mode. The extensive boundary line following this message reinforces the clear delineation between the use of default settings and any potential alternate configurations.