## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/test/run_relval_tests.sh

**Start chunk id:** 1b03d51b5b0df8fbda66e326bebfa05ce19563750a7caacefd3758f219640bee

## Content

**Question:** What actions are taken if the provided `REPO_DIR` is not a git repository?

**Answer:** If the provided `REPO_DIR` is not a git repository, the script will output "Directory \"${REPO_DIR}\" is not a git repository." in red and then exit with a status code of 1.

---

**Question:** What will happen if the central test fails during the RelVal process?

**Answer:** If the central test fails during the RelVal process, the script will display an error message and print the error logs. The exit code will be set to the value of ${ret_global}, indicating a failure.

---

**Question:** What are the steps taken if the return code is not equal to 0 in the given script?

**Answer:** If the return code is not equal to 0, a message "[FATAL]: O2DPG_TEST failed" is appended to the log file and the script returns the same non-zero return code.

---

**Question:** What happens to the `O2DPG_TEST_HASH_BASE` and `O2DPG_TEST_HASH_HEAD` variables if both are not set and there are unstaged changes?

**Answer:** If both `O2DPG_TEST_HASH_BASE` and `O2DPG_TEST_HASH_HEAD` are not set and there are unstaged changes, `O2DPG_TEST_HASH_BASE` will be set to `HEAD` and `O2DPG_TEST_HASH_HEAD` will be left blank.

---

**Question:** What are the filenames used in the test_relval() function and what is the purpose of running the o2dpg_release_validation.py script with the "rel-val" option?

**Answer:** The filenames used in the test_relval() function are file1.root, file2.root, and file3.root. These files are created using the createTestFile.C macro, which is invoked three times with the respective filenames as arguments.

The purpose of running the o2dpg_release_validation.py script with the "rel-val" option is to perform a release validation test. This test is executed twice: once with file1.root and file2.root as input, and a second time with file1.root and file3.root as input. The outputs of these tests are stored in directories named rel_val_file1_file2_dir and rel_val_file1_file3_dir, respectively. If either test fails, the function will log a fatal error and return the failure status.

---

**Question:** What does the `get_git_repo_directory` function do and how does it determine the Git repository directory?

**Answer:** The `get_git_repo_directory` function determines the Git repository directory by first checking if the current directory contains a `.git` directory. If it does, the function outputs the current working directory. Otherwise, it attempts to find the Git directory using `git rev-parse --git-dir` and removes the `.git` suffix if present. It then outputs the resulting path.

---

**Question:** What commands are executed to inspect the validation directories and what are the conditions under which the script will log a fatal error?

**Answer:** The commands executed to inspect the validation directories are:

1. `${O2DPG_ROOT}/RelVal/o2dpg_release_validation.py inspect --path rel_val_${filename1}_${filename2}_dir >> ${LOG_FILE} 2>&1`
2. `${O2DPG_ROOT}/RelVal/o2dpg_release_validation.py inspect --path rel_val_${filename1}_${filename3}_dir >> ${LOG_FILE} 2>&1}`

A fatal error will be logged and the script will return with an error if the return value (`ret`) from any of the inspection commands is not equal to 0.

---

**Question:** What does the script do if no files in the "RelVal/" directory have changed?

**Answer:** If no files in the "RelVal/" directory have changed, the script will output "Nothing to test" and exit with code 0.