## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/MC/run/ANCHOR/tests/test_anchor_2tag_template.sh

**Start chunk id:** 24bc831eadc047bc8e991fbc32c028834b3f7485f0714adc5c8bbf8342aa3a4e

## Content

**Question:** What is the value of the `ALIEN_JDL_MCANCHOR` environment variable and how is it set in the script?

**Answer:** The value of the `ALIEN_JDL_MCANCHOR` environment variable is set to `%{PASSNAME}`. This is achieved through the line:

```bash
export ALIEN_JDL_MCANCHOR=%{PASSNAME}
```

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the environment variable O2DPG_CUSTOM_REPO is set, and what is the impact on the O2DPG installation process?

**Answer:** If the environment variable O2DPG_CUSTOM_REPO is set, the document indicates that a custom O2DPG repository specified by O2DPG_CUSTOM_REPO will be checked out using git. Specifically, the command `git clone "${O2DPG_CUSTOM_REPO}" O2DPG` is executed to clone the repository into a directory named O2DPG. As a result, the O2DPG_ROOT environment variable is set to point to the local clone of the custom repository, and ALIEN_JDL_O2DPG_OVERWRITE is also set to the local O2DPG directory. This process bypasses the use of a released software tag and instead uses the custom repository for the O2DPG installation, potentially allowing for a more customized or experimental setup.

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the `ALIEN_JDL_O2DPGWORKFLOWTARGET` variable and what are the possible values it can take according to the document?

**Answer:** The `ALIEN_JDL_O2DPGWORKFLOWTARGET` variable specifies the target of the O2DPG workflow. According to the document, the only possible value provided for this variable is "aod".