## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/simulation/blob/main/docs/gettingstarted/troubleshooting.md

**Start chunk id:** 29fd48b77e2f309855261948490cc90d0c3358feb657290bdf702a977a7e3af5

## Content

---
sort: 3
title: Troubleshooting

---

# Troubleshooting

## You are encountering a problem

You may find the solution to your issue within this documentation. If not, please refer to [here](othreresources.md#contact) for guidance on contacting the development team. Please provide a detailed description of your issue and include a minimal reproducer (e.g., scripts, necessary input files), along with any available log files.

---

Depending on the complexity of the issue, you may be requested to create a ticket on [JIRA](otherresources.md#jira-bug-tracking) to monitor your problem. This improves transparency and allows other experts to join the discussion when necessary.
When filling out such a ticket, ensure you provide comprehensive details and links to necessary resources for reproducing the issue.
If the problem is more complex, you are encouraged to request a slot in the [WP12/13 meeting](otherresources.md#meetings) to explain and discuss the issue with a broader group of experts.

## Documentation is incomplete

If you possess the knowledge, consider [contributing](contribute.md) to this documentation by submitting a PR to address the gaps you identify.
If you are still facing difficulties, refer to [here](otherresources.md#contact) for guidance on contacting developers about the missing documentation.