## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/simulation/blob/main/docs/gettingstarted/README.md

**Start chunk id:** 548b3ee1f774b734d50781f9ada54295e818302d70e1a63c26c189f53b63d8d4

## Content

### Quick Start Example

A standard (example) command line invocation looks like this:

```bash
o2-sim -n 10 -g pythia8pp -e TGeant4 -j 2 --skipModules ZDC,PHS
```
This command initiates a simulation of 10 pythia8 events across the full ALICE detector, except for the ZDC and PHOS modules, utilizing Geant4 on 2 parallel worker processes. The simulation can be customized with various command-line options; for a comprehensive list, see the [transport section](../transport/).

### Alien GRID Token

To run the simulation, you need a valid Alien token. If you lack a certificate, follow the [instructions](https://alice-doc.github.io/alice-analysis-tutorial/start/cert.html) provided, especially the step on [converting your certificate for grid tools usage](https://alice-doc.github.io/alice-analysis-tutorial/start/cert.html#convert-your-certificate-for-using-the-grid-tools).

Obtain the token by executing:
```bash
alien-token-init
```
after setting up your `alienv` environment.

---

---
sort: 0
title: Getting started
---

# Getting started

The `o2-sim` executable is designed to simulate particles produced in a collision as they interact with the detector, generating energy deposits or hits that can be translated into detectable signals. It acts as the main executable, initiating a network of sub-processes that communicate through messages in a distributed system.

## Usage overview

There are two executables used to manage a simulation run:
1. `o2-sim`: This runs the simulation across multiple worker processes. It includes a dedicated process for particle generation and another for collecting all detector hits created in each simulation process. This is the default executable used for all examples in this documentation.
1. `o2-sim-serial`: This runs only a single simulation process and is required for certain specialized simulations. Its usage will be explicitly noted when `o2-sim` is not suitable.