## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/production/configurations/2022/MayJunePilotBeam/apass1/async_pass.sh

**Start chunk id:** 04085fc9f9425a8abb9d997daee523e799056d633ff5b062eab11bec195c086f

## Content

**Question:** What will happen if the environment variables RUNNUMBER, PERIOD, PASS, and BEAMTYPE are not set?

**Answer:** processing will halt and an error message will be displayed, as the script checks if these variables are set and exits with code 3 if any are missing.

---

**Question:** What will happen if both $QC_JSON_FROM_OUTSIDE and $GEN_TOPO_WORKDIR/json_cache are empty?

**Answer:** If both $QC_JSON_FROM_OUTSIDE and $GEN_TOPO_WORKDIR/json_cache are empty, the script will print "No QC files found, probably QC was not run" and no QC_production.json file will be created.

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the "setenv_extra.sh" file does not exist in the current directory and also not found in the specified O2DPG path?

**Answer:** If the "setenv_extra.sh" file does not exist in the current directory and also not found in the specified O2DPG path, the following actions are taken:

1. A detailed message is printed indicating that no ad-hoc setenv_extra settings are available for the current async processing, and it will use the default settings from O2DPG.
2. The script checks if the file `setenv_extra.sh` exists at the path `$O2DPG_ROOT/DATA/production/configurations/$ALIEN_JDL_LPMANCHORYEAR/$O2DPGPATH/$ALIEN_JDL_LPMPASSNAME/`.
3. If the file is found at this path, a symbolic link is created to point to this file, and then it is sourced with the arguments `$RUNNUMBER` and `$BEAMTYPE`.
4. If the file is not found at this path, another message is printed indicating that no `setenv_extra` file exists for the specified configuration, and it states that no special settings will be used.

---

**Question:** What command is used to run the O2DPG analysis test workflow for checking AO2D files?

**Answer:** The command used to run the O2DPG analysis test workflow for checking AO2D files is:

${O2DPG_ROOT}/MC/analysis_testing/o2dpg_analysis_test_workflow.py --merged-task -f AO2D.root

---

**Question:** What conditions would cause the special settings to be used, based on the given script snippet?

**Answer:** Based on the provided script snippet, there are no conditions that would cause special settings to be used. The script snippet indicates that no special settings will be applied in all cases, as it explicitly states "No special settings will be used". This message is displayed and followed by a line indicating the end of a section or a warning that no special settings are configured. Therefore, the script does not contain any logic that would enable special settings under any conditions.

---

**Question:** What would be the effect on the script if the input file extension is neither "root" nor "xml"?

**Answer:** If the input file extension is neither "root" nor "xml", the script will not execute any commands to process the input file and will not set the MODE variable. The script will simply shift to the next argument, leaving the MODE variable unchanged from its previous state.

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the `runInput_$RUNNUMBER.tgz` file is found in the current directory during the echo processing run?

**Answer:** If the `runInput_$RUNNUMBER.tgz` file is found in the current directory during the echo processing run, it will be untarred using the command `tar -xzvf runInput_$RUNNUMBER.tgz`.

---

**Question:** What happens to the positional parameters if they are not specifically handled in the script?

**Answer:** If a positional parameter is encountered that is not specifically handled within the script, it is added to the POSITIONAL array. This is achieved via the `POSITIONAL+=("$1")` line within the `case` statement, which collects all non-handled arguments into this array for potential later use.

---

**Question:** What condition determines whether the script sources the `parse.sh` file, and what does it source if the run number is less than or equal to 517224?

**Answer:** The script sources the `parse.sh` file if the run number is less than or equal to 517224. If `parse.sh` exists in the current directory, it sources `parse.sh`. Otherwise, it sources the `PARSESCRIPT` variable value, which is set to the path specified in the configuration.

---

**Question:** What would happen if the variable ALIEN_JDL_RUNANALYSISQC is set to "false"?

**Answer:** If the variable ALIEN_JDL_RUNANALYSISQC is set to "false", the Analysis QC will not be run.

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the environment variable `QC_JSON_FROM_OUTSIDE` is set?

**Answer:** If the environment variable `QC_JSON_FROM_OUTSIDE` is set, it indicates that a QC json file is provided from outside, and the message "QC json from outside is [value_of_QC_JSON_FROM_OUTSIDE]" is echoed.

---

**Question:** What command is used to extract performance metrics from the `performanceMetrics.json` file and save them into separate JSON files for each workflow?

**Answer:** The command used to extract performance metrics from the `performanceMetrics.json` file and save them into separate JSON files for each workflow is:

```bash
IFS=$'\n'
if [[ -f "performanceMetrics.json" ]]; then
    for workflow in `grep ': {' performanceMetrics.json`; do
        strippedWorkflow=`echo $workflow | cut -d\" -f2`
        cat performanceMetrics.json | jq '.'\"${strippedWorkflow}\"'' > ${strippedWorkflow}_metrics.json
    done
fi
```