## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/production/configurations/2021/ctf_recreation/ctf_recreation.sh

**Start chunk id:** 0421ddfd33b0ffc95b908365a9a2bc6a0e4f78155aa043eb54de498d7cd608ef

## Content

**Question:** What variable is exported if the environment variable ALIEN_JDL_LPMINTERACTIONTYPE is set?

**Answer:** PASS

---

**Question:** What is the value of TFDELAY when the DETCONFIG is set to "centralBarrel"?

**Answer:** The value of TFDELAY when the DETCONFIG is set to "centralBarrel" is 10.

---

**Question:** What action is taken if there is no custom `setenv_extra_ctf_recreation_$DETCONFIG.sh` script for the current async processing?

**Answer:** If there is no custom `setenv_extra_ctf_recreation_$DETCONFIG.sh` script for the current async processing, the script outputs a message indicating that no ad-hoc settings are available and will use the configuration from O2DPG instead. It then checks for the existence of the default script located at `$O2DPG_ROOT/DATA/production/configurations/$YEAR/ctf_recreation/setenv_extra_ctf_recreation_$DETCONFIG.sh`. If this file exists, it creates a symbolic link to it and sources it. If the file does not exist, it outputs another message indicating the absence of the setenv script for the specified year in O2DPG.

---

**Question:** What will happen if none of the required environment variables (RUNNUMBER, YEAR, PERIOD, DETCONFIG, BEAMTYPE, PASS) are set?

**Answer:** If none of the required environment variables (RUNNUMBER, YEAR, PERIOD, DETCONFIG, BEAMTYPE, PASS) are set, the script will first check if the DETCONFIG is set through the "$ALIEN_JDL_DETCONFIG" variable. If DETCONFIG is still not set, the script will output "nothing set the detector configuration to use, exiting" and exit with code 4. If any of the required environment variables are missing after this check, the script will output an error message listing the missing variables and exit with code 3.

---

**Question:** What is the value of the `TFDELAY` environment variable when the `DETCONFIG` is set to "centralBarrel"?

**Answer:** The value of the `TFDELAY` environment variable when the `DETCONFIG` is set to "centralBarrel" is 10.

---

**Question:** What will happen if the environment variable "setenv_extra_ctf_recreation_$DETCONFIG" is not defined for the specified year in the JDL file when running the O2DPG simulation?

**Answer:** If the environment variable "setenv_extra_ctf_recreation_$DETCONFIG" is not defined for the specified year in the JDL file when running the O2DPG simulation, the processing will not start. The system will output the following messages:

```
No setenv_extra_ctf_recreation_$DETCONFIG for $ALIEN_JDL_LPMANCHORYEAR in O2DPG
                Processing cannot start
*********************************************************************************************************
```

The script will then exit with an error code of 5, indicating that a critical condition has not been met for the simulation to proceed.

---

**Question:** What actions are taken if the `commonInput.tgz` file is not found in the current directory?

**Answer:** If the `commonInput.tgz` file is not found in the current directory, the script outputs "No commonInput.tgz found exiting" and exits with a status code of 2.

---

**Question:** What is the default value of the MODE variable if no input file is provided with a ".root" or ".xml" extension?

**Answer:** The default value of the MODE variable if no input file is provided with a ".root" or ".xml" extension is not explicitly defined in the given script. However, based on the structure of the script, if no such file is provided, the MODE variable will retain its initial state, which is unset. The script sets MODE to "remote" only when processing ".xml" files and to "LOCAL" when processing ".root" files. If no file is provided or it does not match the expected extensions, MODE remains undefined.