## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/production/configurations/CTFSkimming/ctf-skim-workflow.sh

**Start chunk id:** 071ee12fb794f080732277a68f174365b82c7a8dabb1f927dec32778e1215dd4

## Content

**Question:** What are the default memory factors used for the entropy encoding of the ITS and MFT data if not specified otherwise?

**Answer:** The default memory factors used for the entropy encoding of the ITS and MFT data, if not specified otherwise, are 1.5.

---

**Question:** What is the default value of the `RANS_OPT` variable if it is not explicitly set in the script?

**Answer:** The default value of the `RANS_OPT` variable, if it is not explicitly set in the script, is `--ans-version 1.0 --ctf-dict none`.

---

**Question:** What is the default memory factor used for the entropy encoder if not specified in the CTP configuration?

**Answer:** The default memory factor used for the entropy encoder, if not specified in the CTP configuration, is 1.5.

---

**Question:** What is the default memory factor used for the entropy encoder workflows if not specified in the configuration?

**Answer:** The default memory factor used for the entropy encoder workflows, if not specified in the configuration, is 1.5.

---

**Question:** What is the value of `SHMSIZE` when `ALIEN_JDL_CPUCORES` is set to 8 and how does it change if `ALIEN_JDL_CPUCORES` is set to 16?

**Answer:** When `ALIEN_JDL_CPUCORES` is set to 8, the value of `SHMSIZE` is not explicitly defined in the provided script. However, if `ALIEN_JDL_CPUCORES` is set to 16, `SHMSIZE` is set to 16000000000.

---

**Question:** What is the default memory factor used for the TRD detector's entropy encoder workflow if not specified?

**Answer:** The default memory factor used for the TRD detector's entropy encoder workflow, if not specified, is 1.5.

---

**Question:** What are the default values of the `--mem-factor` option for the MCH, PHS, and CPV entropy encoders if not specified otherwise?

**Answer:** The default value of the `--mem-factor` option for the MCH, PHS, and CPV entropy encoders is 1.5 if not specified otherwise.

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the `CTF_MINSIZE` and `CTF_MAX_PER_FILE` variables in the script, and what are their default values?

**Answer:** The `CTF_MINSIZE` variable is used to determine the minimum accumulated size of CTFs before a new file is created. Its default value is set to "2000000000", which likely represents bytes. The `CTF_MAX_PER_FILE` variable specifies the maximum number of CTFs that can be stored in a single file. Its default value is "1000000", indicating the maximum count of CTFs per file.

---

**Question:** What are the default memory factors used for the entropy encoding of the FV0, FDD, and MID detectors if not explicitly specified?

**Answer:** The default memory factors used for the entropy encoding of the FV0, FDD, and MID detectors, if not explicitly specified, are all 1.5.

---

**Question:** What does the script do if neither the IRFRAMES nor the CTFLIST variables are set?

**Answer:** If neither the IRFRAMES nor the CTFLIST variables are set, the script will output usage information and then exit. Specifically, it will print "Format: ${0##*/} -f <IRFramesFile> -c <CTFsList>" and then terminate with an exit status of 1.

---

**Question:** What are the specific parameters set for the ITSClusterer and MFTClusterer when the corresponding detectors are active in the workflow?

**Answer:** When the ITSClusterer and MFTClusterer are active due to the presence of the ITS and MFT detectors in the workflow, the parameter "ITSClustererParam.maxBCDiffToMaskBias" is set to 10 for the ITS, and "MFTClustererParam.maxBCDiffToMaskBias" is set to 10 for the MFT.

---

**Question:** What specific actions are taken in the script if both the ITS and MFT detectors are configured?

**Answer:** If both the ITS and MFT detectors are configured, the script sets the `ARGS_EXTRA_PROCESS_o2_ctf_reader_workflow` environment variable to include `--its-digits` and `--mft-digits`.

---

**Question:** What command is used to add a log file with the number of skimmed CTFs at the end of the workflow?

**Answer:** ls -l o2_ctf*.root | wc -l > nSkimmedCTFs.log

---

**Question:** What is the default value of `NHBPERTF` if neither `ALIEN_JDL_NHBPERTF` nor `ALIEN_JDL_LPMRUNNUMBER` are set?

**Answer:** The default value of `NHBPERTF` if neither `ALIEN_JDL_NHBPERTF` nor `ALIEN_JDL_LPMRUNNUMBER` are set is 32.