## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/testing/private/afurs/fdd-ft0-fv0-digits-qc-ctf.sh

**Start chunk id:** 1ddeffe6edb32eaec99ad744673371cfcf4506b0a476b38c8d94ecf4c940c8bb

## Content

**Question:** What is the purpose of the `o2-qc` command in this workflow and what configuration file does it use?

**Answer:** The `o2-qc` command is used for quality control in this workflow. It utilizes the configuration file specified at `json://${MYDIR}/fdd-ft0-fv0-digits-ds.json`.

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the `--onlyDet` option in the o2-ctf-writer-workflow command and which detectors does it specify in this particular workflow?

**Answer:** The `--onlyDet` option in the o2-ctf-writer-workflow command is used to specify which detectors' data should be processed and written to the CTF file. In this particular workflow, it specifies the processing and writing of data from the FDD, FT0, and FV0 detectors.

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the `--append-det-to-period` parameter in the given `ARGS_CTF` string?

**Answer:** The `--append-det-to-period` parameter in the `ARGS_CTF` string is set to `0`. This indicates that the detector data will not be appended to the period in the metadata. When this parameter is set to `0`, it means the detector data will be treated as a separate entity and will not be included or merged with the existing period data metadata.

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the `--local` flag when running the o2-qc command, and how does it affect the data processing workflow in the context of the FT0 digits dataset?

**Answer:** The `--local` flag in the o2-qc command specifies that the data processing should be executed locally, without utilizing a remote computing resource or grid system. When running o2-qc with this flag in the context of the FT0 digits dataset, the entire workflow will be handled on the local machine, bypassing any remote computational resources. This can be advantageous for smaller datasets or for testing purposes, as it avoids the overhead of remote job submission and management. However, for larger datasets or when more computing power is required, this flag might limit the processing capacity.

---

**Question:** What is the default value of `NTHREADS` and how is it set in the script?

**Answer:** The default value of `NTHREADS` is set to 1 in the script.