## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/production/calib/phs-led.sh

**Start chunk id:** 3b29e82c1ee6d441e295844b26d26f3a54d2ba74d90a76b0705255dff79ac9d3

## Content

**Question:** What is the default value for the maximum statistics variable `max_statistics` in the script?

**Answer:** The default value for the maximum statistics variable `max_statistics` in the script is 50000.

---

**Question:** What happens to the `push_ccdb_path` variable if the environment variable `PUHS_CCDB_PATH` is set?

**Answer:** If the environment variable `PUHS_CCDB_PATH` is set, the `push_ccdb_path` variable is assigned the value of `PUHS_CCDB_PATH`.

---

**Question:** What specific condition causes the push CCDB path to be set to "http://ccdb-test.cern.ch:8080" and how is this condition checked in the script?

**Answer:** The push CCDB path is set to "http://ccdb-test.cern.ch:8080" when the $RUNTYPE variable is equal to "SYNTHETIC" or when the GEN_TOPO_DEPLOYMENT_TYPE variable is set to "ALICE_STAGING". This condition is checked through an if statement in the script:

```bash
if [[ $RUNTYPE == "SYNTHETIC" || "${GEN_TOPO_DEPLOYMENT_TYPE:-}" == "ALICE_STAGING" ]]; then
  push_ccdb_path="http://ccdb-test.cern.ch:8080"
fi
```

---

**Question:** What is the path to the QC configuration file used in this workflow?

**Answer:** The path to the QC configuration file used in this workflow is "/o2/components/qc/ANY/any/phs-led-qc".

---

**Question:** What additional workflow component is added if the QC parameter is set in the configuration, and how is it specified?

**Answer:** If the QC parameter is set in the configuration, an additional workflow component named "QC" is added. This component is specified using the configuration file path stored in the QC_CONFIG variable, which is "/o2/components/qc/ANY/any/phs-led-qc". This is achieved by the line `add_QC_from_consul "${QC_CONFIG}"` in the workflow assembly process.

---

**Question:** What specific condition backend is used in the o2-phos-reco-workflow if the pull_ccdb_path variable is not defined?

**Answer:** The specific condition backend used in the o2-phos-reco-workflow if the pull_ccdb_path variable is not defined is not explicitly stated in the provided document. However, based on the context, it would default to an unspecified condition backend since the --condition-backend flag is not provided when pull_ccdb_path is not defined.

---

**Question:** What is the input type for the o2-phos-reco-workflow?

**Answer:** The input type for the o2-phos-reco-workflow is raw.

---

**Question:** What configuration key value is used to specify the CCDB server for the PHOS calibration workflow?

**Answer:** NameConf.mCCDBServer=PHS_CCDB_PATH

---

**Question:** What specific configuration key value is set for the calibration server in the PHOS calibration workflow, and what is the implication of using the "--forceupdate" option?

**Answer:** In the PHOS calibration workflow, the configuration key value set for the calibration server is "NameConf.mCCDBServer=${PHS_CCDB_PATH}". The "--forceupdate" option implies that any existing calibration data in the specified CCDB path will be overwritten with the new calibration information generated during the workflow execution.