## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/MC/run/PWGHF/run_anchor_ini_from_cvmfs_example.sh

**Start chunk id:** 48d267fd0d762d86c62f54642b1e20e0e8dc3b333bf22ca4456a00efa5f9fb4b

## Content

**Question:** What is the purpose of the `sed` command in this script, and how does it modify the configuration files?

**Answer:** The `sed` command in this script is used to modify configuration files by replacing specific strings with updated values. Specifically, it replaces the original external generator file name `$GENTOREPLACE` with the new file name `$GENFROMCVMFS` and also replaces `$CFGTOREPLACE` with `$CFGFROMCVMFS`. This process is performed on the original configuration file `$ORIGINALINI` to create a modified configuration file `$MODIFIEDINI`. The `sed` command utilizes two substitution expressions to achieve this:

1. `s|$CFGTOREPLACE|$CFGFROMCVMFS|g`: This expression substitutes all occurrences of the original configuration file name (`$CFGTOREPLACE`) with the new file name (`$CFGFROMCVMFS`) in the `$ORIGINALINI` file.
2. `s|$GENTOREPLACE|$GENFROMCVMFS|g`: This expression replaces all instances of the original generator file name (`$GENTOREPLACE`) with the new generator file name (`$GENFROMCVMFS`) in the same file.

After the `sed` command is executed, the modified configuration file is saved as `$MODIFIEDINI`.

---

**Question:** What is the value of the `ALIEN_JDL_LPMANCHORPRODUCTION` variable and what does it represent in the context of the document?

**Answer:** The value of the `ALIEN_JDL_LPMANCHORPRODUCTION` variable is "LHC23zg". In the context of the document, this variable represents the production label or identifier for the specific production run being referenced, which in this case is labeled as "LHC23zg".

---

**Question:** What changes would you make to the script if you needed to use a different original .ini file and a different output file name?

**Answer:** To use a different original .ini file and a different output file name, you would modify the script as follows:

```
# disable the QC
export DISABLE_QC=1

# modify ini file, to have external generator and/or config from a specific tag different from the one used for anchoring
ORIGINALINI=/path/to/your/different/ini/file.ini # change this to your desired .ini file
MODIFIEDINI=your_desired_output_file_name.ini # change this to your desired output file name

CFGTOREPLACE="\${O2DPG_ROOT}/MC/config/PWGHF/pythia8/generator/pythia8_beautyhadronic_with_decays_Mode2.cfg" # original config file name to be modified
CFGFROMCVMFS="/cvmfs/alice.cern.ch/el9-x86_64/Packages/O2DPG/daily-20240912-0200-1/MC/config/PWGHF/pythia8/generator/pythia8_beautyhadronic_with_decays_Mode2.cfg" # new config file name to use
```