## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/production/calib/emc-pedestal-aggregator.sh

**Start chunk id:** 4d512ede2409f388b84befb2c35e00358fe32550607a43d6487ba6fcb69b4fdb

## Content

**Question:** What is the default value of the `INPTYPE` variable if it is not specified?

**Answer:** The default value of the `INPTYPE` variable is an empty string ("").

---

**Question:** What is the default value of the `QC_STANDALONE` variable if neither `EMC_PEDQC_STANDALONE` nor `ISTEST` is set?

**Answer:** The default value of the `QC_STANDALONE` variable, if neither `EMC_PEDQC_STANDALONE` nor `ISTEST` is set, is `0`.

---

**Question:** What is the value of the `QC_CONFIG` variable when the `QC_STANDALONE` variable is greater than 0, and how does it differ from the value when `QC_STANDALONE` is not greater than 0?

**Answer:** When the `QC_STANDALONE` variable is greater than 0, the `QC_CONFIG` variable is set to "/o2/components/qc/ANY/any/emc-pedestal-qc-standalone". In contrast, if `QC_STANDALONE` is not greater than 0, `QC_CONFIG` is set to "/o2/components/qc/ANY/any/emc-pedestal-qc".

---

**Question:** What is the command used to assemble the workflow for the EMCAL pedestal calibration?

**Answer:** The command used to assemble the workflow for the EMCAL pedestal calibration is:

```
WORKFLOW+="o2-dpl-run $ARGS_ALL $GLOBALDPLOPT"
```

---

**Question:** What are the command-line options and arguments used to configure the o2-calibration-emcal-pedestal-calib-workflow in the given workflow?

**Answer:** The command-line options and arguments used to configure the o2-calibration-emcal-pedestal-calib-workflow in the given workflow are:

--addRunNumber

---

**Question:** What specific conditions and configurations are required for the o2-calibration-ccdb-populator-workflow to populate the CCDB with data from SSPEC 1, and how does it differ from populating SSPEC 0?

**Answer:** For the o2-calibration-ccdb-populator-workflow to populate the CCDB with data from SSPEC 1, the following conditions and configurations are required:
- The workflow must be invoked with the command: `--ccdb-path="$CCDBPATH2" --sspec-min 1 --sspec-max 1 --name-extention dcs`
This configuration specifies:
- `--ccdb-path="$CCDBPATH2"`: Indicates the second CCDB path to be populated.
- `--sspec-min 1 --sspec-max 1`: Specifies that data from SSPEC 1 should be used.
- `--name-extention dcs`: Adds a "dcs" extension to the name of the populated data.

In contrast, populating SSPEC 0 requires:
- The command: `--ccdb-path="$CCDBPATH1" --sspec-min 0 --sspec-max 0`
This configuration specifies:
- `--ccdb-path="$CCDBPATH1"`: Indicates the first CCDB path to be populated.
- `--sspec-min 0 --sspec-max 0`: Specifies that data from SSPEC 0 should be used.

The main differences lie in the CCDB path and the SSPEC range specified.