## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/AliceO2/blob/dev/run/SimExamples/HepMC/README.md

**Start chunk id:** 55c3b3b62355446b0825b02620c2846cbc186770d5b642c0aa31fdf448c6ccb3

## Content

**Question:** What is the option to use `GeneratorHepMC` in `o2-sim`?

**Answer:** The option to use `GeneratorHepMC` in `o2-sim` is `-g hepmc`.

---

**Question:** What are the steps to read HepMC files using the `GeneratorHepMC` in the O2 simulation framework, and which external event generators can produce HepMC formatted files?

**Answer:** To read HepMC files using the `GeneratorHepMC` in the O2 simulation framework, follow these steps:

1. Use the `-g hepmc` option with the `o2-sim` generator to specify that HepMC files should be read.
2. The HepMC event structures can be read from any file format supported by HepMC itself. For a list of supported formats, refer to the documentation at [this link](http://hepmc.web.cern.ch/hepmc/group__IO.html) and [this link](http://hepmc.web.cern.ch/hepmc/group__factory.html).

External event generators that can produce HepMC formatted files include:

- [Pythia8](https://pythia.org)
- The [CRMC](https://gitlab.iap.kit.edu/AirShowerPhysics/crmc) suite
- [Herwig](https://herwig.hepforge.org/)
- [SMASH](https://smash-transport.github.io/)
- And many other standalone event generator programs

For more information on how to generate event files in the HepMC format, consult the respective documentation for these event generators.

---

**Question:** What specific steps should a user take to generate HepMC files compatible with `GeneratorHepMC` in ALICE O2, and which external programs are mentioned as capable of producing such files?

**Answer:** To generate HepMC files compatible with `GeneratorHepMC` in ALICE O2, users should use external event generator programs that can produce HepMC formatted files. The document mentions the following programs as capable of generating such files:

- Pythia8 (https://pythia.org)
- The CRMC suite (https://gitlab.iap.kit.edu/AirShowerPhysics/crmc)
- Herwig (https://herwig.hepforge.org/)
- SMASH (https://smash-transport.github.io/)

Users are advised to refer to the documentation of these programs for instructions on how to create HepMC formatted event files.

---

**Question:** What command-line option is used to specify the HepMC file for the generator in the simulation?

**Answer:** The command-line option used to specify the HepMC file for the generator in the simulation is `--configKeyValues "GeneratorFileOrCmd.fileNames=events.hepmc"` where `events.hepmc` is the name of the HepMC file.

---

**Question:** What are the requirements that the program `eg` must meet to be used with the `o2-sim` command for generating HepMC events?

**Answer:** The program `eg` must meet the following requirements to be used with the `o2-sim` command for generating HepMC events:

1. `eg` must be capable of writing HepMC event records to the standard output.
2. `eg` should be a valid executable or command that can be spawned by the `o2-sim` command.

---

**Question:** What specific requirements must the external program `eg` meet to be used with the `GeneratorHepMC` component in the simulation?

**Answer:** The external program `eg` must meet the following requirements to be used with the `GeneratorHepMC` component in the simulation:

- It should be an executable program that can produce HepMC event records.
- It must write these event records to the standard output.
- It needs to be compatible with the environment in which the simulation is run, ensuring proper command-line execution.

---

**Question:** What does the `GeneratorFileOrCmd.outputSwitch` key default to, and what does this imply about the EG program's default behavior regarding HepMC event structures?

**Answer:** The `GeneratorFileOrCmd.outputSwitch` key defaults to `>`, which implies that the EG program is assumed to write the HepMC event structures to standard output by default, and no additional output is printed on standard output.

---

**Question:** What configuration keys and corresponding command-line switches are required for the EG application to specify the number of events, the random number generator seed, and the output file for HepMC event structures?

**Answer:** For the EG application to specify the number of events, the random number generator seed, and the output file for HepMC event structures, the following configuration keys and corresponding command-line switches are required:

- To set the number of events to generate: Use the configuration key `GeneratorFileOrCmd.nEventsSwitch` with the command-line switch `-n`.
- To set the random number generator seed: Use the configuration key `GeneratorFileOrCmd.seedSwitch` with the command-line switch `-s`.
- To write HepMC event structures to a specified file: Use the configuration key `GeneratorFileOrCmd.outputSwitch` with a default value of `>` to indicate standard output, and override this with a filename to write to a specific file.

---

**Question:** What specific configuration keys and their default command-line switches must be used to set the random number generator seed, the number of events to generate, and to customize the output file for HepMC events in the EG program, and how would you format these commands if you wanted to generate 500 events with a seed of 987654 and write the output to a file named "output.hepmc"?

**Answer:** To set the random number generator seed, use the configuration key `GeneratorFileOrCmd.seedSwitch` with the default command-line switch `-s`. For example, to set the seed to 987654, use `-s 987654`.

To set the number of events to generate, use the configuration key `GeneratorFileOrCmd.nEventsSwitch` with the default command-line switch `-n`. For example, to generate 500 events, use `-n 500`.

To customize the output file for HepMC events, use the configuration key `GeneratorFileOrCmd.outputSwitch` which defaults to `>` for standard output. For writing the output to a file named "output.hepmc", use `>` followed by the filename. For example, to write the output to "output.hepmc", use `> output.hepmc`.

To generate 500 events with a seed of 987654 and write the output to a file named "output.hepmc", format the command as follows:

```
EG -s 987654 -n 500 > output.hepmc
```

---

**Question:** What is the default configuration key used to set the maximum impact parameter in the EG application?

**Answer:** The default configuration key used to set the maximum impact parameter in the EG application is `GeneratorFileOrCmd.bMaxSwithc`.

---

**Question:** What is the default configuration key used to set the maximum impact parameter in the EG application, and how would you modify the command line argument to set the maximum impact parameter to 20 Fermi-metres?

**Answer:** The default configuration key used to set the maximum impact parameter in the EG application is `GeneratorFileOrCmd.bMaxSwithc`. To modify the command line argument to set the maximum impact parameter to 20 Fermi-metres, you should use the command line argument `-b 20`.

---

**Question:** What would be the command line argument to generate events with an impact parameter ranging from 0fm to 20fm using the EG application, and how does this relate to the configuration key `GeneratorFileOrCmd.bMaxSwithc`?

**Answer:** The command line argument to generate events with an impact parameter ranging from 0fm to 20fm using the EG application would be `-b 20`. This relates to the configuration key `GeneratorFileOrCmd.bMaxSwithc` as it specifies the maximum impact parameter that should be sampled. Thus, setting `-b 20` would configure the application to sample events with an impact parameter up to 20 Fermi-metres, aligning with the key's default usage of `-b` to denote the upper bound.

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the wrapper script `crmc.sh`?

**Answer:** The purpose of the wrapper script `crmc.sh` is to filter out excessive output from the `crmc` program and retain only specific types of information, such as `HepMC::` lines or lines starting with `E`, `A`, `U`, `W`, `V`, or `P` followed by a space. This is achieved by redirecting `crmc` output to `sed`, which then processes and outputs only the desired lines.

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the shell script `crmc.sh` and how does it help in using `crmc` with `o2-sim`?

**Answer:** The shell script `crmc.sh` serves to filter out unnecessary information from the standard output of the `crmc` program. It allows `crmc` to be used with `o2-sim` by selectively passing lines that start with `HepMC::` or specific single characters (`E`, `A`, `U`, `W`, `V`, `P`) followed by a space. This filtering ensures that only relevant data is transmitted to `o2-sim`, making the interaction between these two programs more efficient and focused on the required information.

---

**Question:** What specific command-line option in the `o2-sim` command is used to configure the generator file or command, and what is the value of this option in the provided example?

**Answer:** The specific command-line option in the `o2-sim` command used to configure the generator file or command is `--configKeyValues`. In the provided example, the value of this option is "GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd=crmc.sh -m 12 -i2212 -I 1002080820".

---

**Question:** What does the `--configKeyValues` option "GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd=crmc.sh -m 12 -i2212 -I 1002080820" specify in the document?

**Answer:** The `--configKeyValues` option "GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd=crmc.sh -m 12 -i2212 -I 1002080820" specifies the command and its arguments to be executed by the generator. Specifically, it sets `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd` to `crmc.sh -m 12 -i2212 -I 1002080820`, which tells the generator to run the script `crmc.sh` with the parameters `-m 12`, `-i2212`, and `-I 1002080820`.

---

**Question:** What will be the effect of setting `HepMC.prune=true` in the provided configuration?

**Answer:** Setting `HepMC.prune=true` in the provided configuration will cause the events to be processed with particle pruning. Specifically, events containing particles that are not beam particles (status = 4), decayed particles (status = 2), or final state particles (status = 1) will be removed. This means only particles with statuses 1, 2, or 4 will be retained in the generated HepMC events.

---

**Question:** What specific command-line options are used in the given configuration to control the generation and execution of particle events, and how do these options interact with the creation of the temporary file and FIFO?

**Answer:** The specific command-line options used in the given configuration to control the generation and execution of particle events are:

- `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd=crmc.sh -m 12 -i2212 -I 1002080820`

These options instruct the generator to use `crmc.sh` for event generation, specifying the mass of the initial particle with `-m 12`, the type of the initial particle with `-i2212`, and the type of the initial particle interaction with `-I 1002080820`.

These options interact with the creation of the temporary file and FIFO in the following way:

1. `GeneratorHepMC` internally creates a unique temporary file in the working directory.
2. A FIFO (named pipe) is created.
3. A command line is built using the specified options (e.g., `crmc.sh -m 12 -i2212 -I 1002080820 > fifo-name &`).
4. The command line is executed, with the FIFO serving as the output destination for the generated HepMC events.

---

**Question:** What does the document suggest about using the `keep` feature with caution?

**Answer:** The document suggests that using the `keep` feature, which reduces event size, should be done with caution as it can potentially corrupt the event structure. However, measures are in place to minimize this risk.

---

**Question:** What are the two options that can be used to control which particles to keep in the event, and how might they be utilized in a future implementation?

**Answer:** The two options that can be used to control which particles to keep in the event are:

- `HepMC.keepStatus=list-of-status-codes`: This option allows specifying a list of status codes for particles that should be retained. Particles with status codes matching those in the list will be kept in the event, while others will be excluded.

- `HepMC.keepPDGs=list-of-pdg-numbers`: This option enables specifying a list of PDG (Particle Data Group) numbers for particles to be preserved. Only particles with PDG numbers matching those in the list will remain in the event, whereas other particles will be discarded.

In a future implementation, these options would provide more granular control over the selection of particles in events. Users could define exactly which particles based on their status or type (as identified by PDG numbers) are to be retained, allowing for more precise and flexible event handling and analysis.

---

**Question:** What specific conditions must be met when using the `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd` to execute a child process that writes out HepMC2 format, and why is the `HepMC.version` key necessary in this scenario?

**Answer:** When using `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd` to execute a child process that writes out HepMC2 format, the `HepMC.version` key must be set to `2`. This is necessary because the code automatically determines the HepMC format version of the input file, but when generating HepMC2 format, this setting must be explicitly specified to ensure correct handling of the output. Failing to set `HepMC.version` to `2` will cause the code to assume HepMC3 format, potentially leading to incorrect processing of the events.

---

**Question:** What is the default switch used by the child program to specify the output file if `GeneratorFileOrCmd.outputSwitch` is not set?

**Answer:** The default switch used by the child program to specify the output file, if `GeneratorFileOrCmd.outputSwitch` is not set, is `>`

---

**Question:** What happens if both `GeneratorFileOrCmd.fileNames` and `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd` are set in the configuration, and what is the priority between them?

**Answer:** If both `GeneratorFileOrCmd.fileNames` and `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd` are set in the configuration, `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd` takes priority. When `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd` is set (not an empty string), `GeneratorFileOrCmd.fileNames` is ignored, and the command line specified in `GeneratorFileOrCmd.cmd` is executed as a background child process instead.

---

**Question:** What specific command line switches and their default values does the `GeneratorFileOrCmd` key use to pass options to the child program, and how does it handle the output file specification when both the `outputSwitch` and `seedSwitch` are set to non-empty strings?

**Answer:** The `GeneratorFileOrCmd` key uses several command line switches to pass options to the child program:

- `outputSwitch=switch` (default `>`) for specifying the output file. This default assumes the program writes HepMC events to standard output.
- `seedSwitch=switch` (default `-s`) for specifying the random number generator seed. The value for this is chosen based on the `o2-sim` option `--seed`.

When both `outputSwitch` and `seedSwitch` are set to non-empty strings, these switches along with their respective values are passed to the child program, allowing for customization of the output file and the random seed used for the simulation.

---

**Question:** What is the default value for the `GeneratorFileOrCmd.bMaxSwitch` option?

**Answer:** The default value for the `GeneratorFileOrCmd.bMaxSwitch` option is `-b`.

---

**Question:** What is the full command line format for running the simulation with specified events, seed, impact parameter limit, and output file?

**Answer:** > _commandLine_ _nEventsSwitch_ _nEvents_ _seedSwitch_ _seed_ _bMaxSwitch_ _bMax_ _outputSwitch_ _output_ _backgroundSwitch_

---

**Question:** What is the impact of using the deprecated `HepMC.fileName` option instead of `GeneratorFileOrCmd.fileNames` in the command line build, and how does it affect the generation process?

**Answer:** Using the deprecated `HepMC.fileName` option instead of `GeneratorFileOrCmd.fileNames` in the command line build will not have the intended effect of specifying the input file names for the event generation process. The correct option to use is `GeneratorFileOrCmd.fileNames` as `HepMC.fileName` has been deprecated. This misusage will likely result in an error or unexpected behavior, as the program will not recognize the deprecated option correctly and may fail to read the specified input file names, thus affecting the overall generation process negatively.

---

**Question:** What will the command line look like if `_bMaxSwitch` and `backgroundSwitch` are both empty?

**Answer:** The command line will be

> _commandLine_ _nEventsSwitch_ _nEvents_ _seedSwitch_ _seed_ _outputSwitch_ _output_

---

**Question:** What would the command line look like if both `_bMaxSwitch` and `_backgroundSwitch` are empty?

**Answer:** The command line would appear as:

> _commandLine_ _nEventsSwitch_ _nEvents_ _seedSwitch_ _seed_ _outputSwitch_ _output_

---

**Question:** What would be the command line if both `_bMaxSwitch` and `_backgroundSwitch` are empty, and all other variables are non-empty?

**Answer:** The command line would be

> _commandLine_ _nEventsSwitch_ _nEvents_ _seedSwitch_ _seed_ _outputSwitch_ _output_