## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/DATA/production/calib/hmp-pedestals-processing.sh

**Start chunk id:** 5aad557fffdb38cc7d1c4806cc63186285372003a83543394c5ddcafccd94c23

## Content

**Question:** What is the default value of the HMP_SIGMACUT environment variable?

**Answer:** The default value of the HMP_SIGMACUT environment variable is 4.

---

**Question:** What is the default value of the `HMP_SIGMACUT` environment variable and what does it represent in the context of the HMPID detector workflow?

**Answer:** The default value of the `HMP_SIGMACUT` environment variable is 4. In the context of the HMPID detector workflow, this value represents the threshold cut sigma for identifying signal peaks, indicating how many standard deviations away from the mean a peak must be to be considered significant.

---

**Question:** What specific condition must be met for the DCS CCDB recording to be disabled, and what environment variable is used to control this?

**Answer:** For the DCS CCDB recording to be disabled, the condition is that the environment variable HMP_NODCSCCDB_REC must be set to True.

---

**Question:** What is the default value of the HMP_SIGMACUT environment variable?

**Answer:** The default value of the HMP_SIGMACUT environment variable is "4".

---

**Question:** What will be the value of `SPEC_PARAM` if both `HMP_CCDB_REC` and `HMP_FILES_REC` are set to "false", and `HMP_PED_TAG` is set to "CustomTag"?

**Answer:** SPEC_PARAM="--files-basepath 'HMP' --pedestals-tag CustomTag --sigmacut 4"

---

**Question:** What specific conditions must be met for the `--use-dcsccdb` parameter to be included in the `SPEC_PARAM` variable, and what are the corresponding command-line options and values that will be appended to `SPEC_PARAM` under these conditions?

**Answer:** For the `--use-dcsccdb` parameter to be included in the `SPEC_PARAM` variable, the `HMP_NODCSCCDB_REC` environment variable must be set to 'false'. Under these conditions, the following command-line options and values will be appended to `SPEC_PARAM`:

```
--use-dcsccdb --dcsccdb-uri $DCSCCDBSERVER_PERS --dcsccdb-alivehours 3 
```

---

**Question:** What is the first command added to the workflow in this configuration?

**Answer:** The first command added to the workflow is:

add_W o2-dpl-raw-proxy "--dataspec \"$PROXY_INSPEC\" --inject-missing-data --channel-config \"name=readout-proxy,type=pull,method=connect,address=ipc://@$INRAWCHANNAME,rateLogging=1,transport=shmem\"" "" 0

---

**Question:** What is the purpose of the `o2-hmpid-raw-to-pedestals-workflow` command in the workflow, and what does the `--fast-decode` option do?

**Answer:** The `o2-hmpid-raw-to-pedestals-workflow` command is used to process raw data into pedestals, which are essential for background level determination in the High Multiplicity Photon Detector (HMPID). This command is part of the workflow to calculate HMPID pedestals (version 3).

The `--fast-decode` option enables a faster decoding process of the raw data, which can significantly reduce the processing time. This option might involve some trade-offs in the accuracy or completeness of the decoded data, but it is useful for quickly obtaining results or processing large datasets.

---

**Question:** What specific command-line arguments would be passed to the `o2-dpl-run` workflow if the `WORKFLOWMODE` is set to "dds" and the `PRINT_WORKFLOW` environment variable is set to "1"?

**Answer:** o2-dpl-run ${ARGS_ALL} ${GLOBALDPLOPT} --dds ${WORKFLOWMODE_FILE:-} | sed -e "s/\\\\n/\n/g" -e"s/| */| \\\\\n/g" | eval cat 1>&2