## Metadata

**Document link:** https://github.com/AliceO2Group/O2DPG/blob/master/UTILS/aod-size/counttracks.sh

**Start chunk id:** e814fc4dbce56e772d98e2063060a46647cdaed0459a47043bc1467f9380fe84

## Content

**Question:** What does the script do when it is run with no arguments?

**Answer:** When the script is run with no arguments, it will not have any file names provided to it. As a result, the LIST variable will remain empty. Consequently, the script will pass an empty list to the root.exe command, causing the counttracks.C macro to be executed with no input files. This will likely result in an error or no output, as the counttracks.C macro is expected to process at least one input file.

---

**Question:** What modifications would you make to the script to count events instead of tracks?

**Answer:** To modify the script to count events instead of tracks, the following changes should be made:

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# This script counts the number of events, bc's and tracks in a list of AO2D.root files.
# run as: countevents.sh [file1] [file2] ...
# Remote file locations should be specified as: alien:///alice/.../AO2D.root

LIST=""
for var in "$@"
do
  LIST+="$var "
done

LIST=\"$LIST\"

root.exe -b -q -l countevents.C\("$LIST"\)
```

The key change is replacing `counttracks.C` with `countevents.C` in the `root.exe` command to specify the correct function for counting events.

---

**Question:** What specific condition must be met for the script to correctly process remote files located on a grid storage system, and how does the script ensure this condition is satisfied?

**Answer:** For the script to correctly process remote files located on a grid storage system, the files must be specified using the "alien://" prefix. The script ensures this condition is satisfied by allowing remote file locations to be specified as "alien:///alice/.../AO2D.root". This is evident from the documentation stating that "Remote file locations should be specified as: alien:///alice/.../AO2D.root".